---
layout: assignment
title: Final Project
---

The final project is due on **11/15 at 11:59pm**. Points will be deducted if you turn it in late. Turning it in 1 day late is -10 points, and each subsequent day will be -5 points.

For the final project, you will develop a single page application (SPA) on a topic of your choice with React for the frontend. For the backend, you will build a mock API like we did in class using JSON Server. For those who are interested, you are welcome to build an API as we'll learn towards the end of the class. This will involve extra work however.

## Application Requirements

- Client-side routing with React Router
  - At least 4 routes.
  - A 404 page if a user navigates to a route that doesn't exist
- At least one AJAX request for each of the following request types: GET, POST, PUT/PATCH, and DELETE.
- Custom form validation (don't use HTML5 form validation). If a form is invalid, there should be unique error messages next to each field.
- At least one reusable/generic component designed by you. This should not be any of the components we did together in class.
- Each page should have a unique document title (the title in a browser tab).
- Display notifications of some sort when a user has taken an action and it was successful, like deleting, creating, and updating something.
- Use of 1 third party React library (not counting React Router).

**Projects will be graded based on overall complexity.**

## Code Quality Requirements

- At least 15 tests
- Travis CI integration with all tests passing and a status badge on your project's README.md
- Cleanly formatted code using Prettier.
- Don't just make the code work. Make it also easy to read. Write readable variable and function names.

## User Experience Requirements

Your project should be styled so that it presents a good user experience and looks organized and professional. You are welcome to use libraries like Bootstrap, Foundation, etc.

## Deployment

Your project should be deployed somewhere. I recommend using Netlify or Surge.

[Deploying React Projects to Surge.sh](/2019/10/17/deploying-react-to-surge.html)

## Submission

Include the following in the `README.md` of your repo:

- The URL of your deployed app
- A YouTube link to a screencast where you demo your project and explain where you fulfilled each requirement. This video should have audio. Please keep this video under 10 minutes long.

[https://classroom.github.com/a/gHB-vasl](https://classroom.github.com/a/gHB-vasl)

You are done! 👏
